How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

Maintainable programs are made through the use of flexible functions and limiting the use of hard coding. Good comments are also necessary to help returning or future programmers to easily understand what each piece of code is intended to do. In project one, the database connection was hard coded to make setup easier, but the CRUD functionality was created to support any type of query provided in dictionary form. This means that if more CRUD functions were needed, future programmers could easily copy and past existing functions and modify them to their needs, reducing development time.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

Solving problems firstly requires understanding any existing code. From there the programmer can  work backwards from the intended result, breaking each piece into basic components and functions. With the help of library documentation and tutorials, the programmer can build the required components. I find it best to build pieces as simply as possible and testing each piece before adding any detail or complexity. I used many of the same techniques I used in previous courses, however, I frequently relied on provided code template components as a baseline to understand how to build a similar components.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists try to derive the most effective way to format and program information in an easily presentable manner. This is important because if the program is difficult or inconvienent, the users won't make use of it, rendering all of the effort useless. The work we did on this project helps a company by grouping and filtering information. This significantly reduces the time and energy one would have to spend iterating through the data otherwise, and provides it in a more visually appealing way that anybody can quickly interpret.
